INTRO

Clarify what my goal is. What is inner peace? Perhaps change to "fulness of joy"? Or both?
Inner peace & joy / Eternal life

LEARNING

Definition: Acquiring knowledge and skills.

In Plato's allegory of the cave, Socrates tells the story of a man who lived his entire life looking at shadows on the wall of a cave.
Forcing this person out into the outside world would initially cause pain and discomfort as his eyes adjusted to the light.
However, Socrates asks, "If he again recalled his first dwelling, and the "knowing" that passes as the norm there, and the people with
whom he once was chained, don't you think he would consider himself lucky because of the transformation that had happened...?"

Learning is usually unpleasant at first, but always makes life more rewarding in the long run.
Marcus Aurelius concurs by claiming that
learning more about the universe always leads to a more satisfying, pleasing outlook on the universe.

"[I]f a man should have a feeling and deeper insight with respect to the things which are provided in the universe,
there is hardly one of those which follow by way of consquenece which will not seem to him to be in a manner
disposed as to give pleasure. And so he will see even the real gaping jaws of wild beasts
with no less pleasure than those which painters and sculptors show by imitation....
many such things will present themselves, not pleasing to every man,
but to him only who has become truly familiar with nature and her works." (Marcus Aurelius)

The type of learning I'm talking about includes, but goes far beyond, academic study.
Almost anything can be a source of learning: intellectual reasoning, studies, personal experiences, close relationships, suffering, etc.
Simone Weil argues that academic learning and poverty are both equally valid methods of coming close to God (which is equivalent to learning all Truth)
"[Academic students] are NO NEARER to goodness than their brothers working in fields and factories.
Peasants and workmen possess a nearness to God of incomparable savor which is found in the depths of poverty,
in the absence of social consideration and in the endurance of long drawn-out sufferings."

The importance of humility:
"I asked myself... whether I would like to be as I was, neither having their knowledge nor their ignorance, or like them in both;
and I made answer to myself... that I was better off as I was" (Socrates)
"I neither know nor think that I know. In this latter particular, then I seem to have slightly the advantage of [others]" (Socrates).
"To know and yet (think) we do not know is the highest (attaiment); not to know (and yet think) we do know is a disease" (Lao-tzu).
"To be learned is good" quote from BOM 2 Nephi 9

The importance of faith:
Learning as much as possible means attempting to learn ALL truth. Faith is a necessary tool for 2 reasons:
1) it is impossible to know anything with 100% certainty other than one's own existence.
"the statement "I am, I exist" is necessarily true every time it is uttered by me or conceived in my mind." (Descartes)
Thus, to believe anything else requires some degree of faith - acting as though something is true without 100% assurance that you are right.
2) Some truths are created by belief itself.
"If I stand aloof, and refuse to budge an inch until I have objective evidence [that you like me]... ten to one your liking never comes" (William James).

Agnosticism is incapable of discovering certain types of truth.
i no William James claims that agnosticism is irrational because "a rule of thinking which would absolutely
prevent me from acknowledging certain kinds of truth if those kinds of truth were really there, would be an irational rule."

Personal example: why I'm in college. Not to get a job.
I'm here to learn for its own sake and then apply that
knowledge to help myself and others live the good life.
If the school let me keep getting degrees my whole life, I would do it.
Possible ph.D for the same reason.
Of course, I wouldn't dedicate 100% of my time to school, because learning by itself doesn't accomplish much.
I would need to APPLY that knowledge before it actually does any good.


MASTERY

"No longer talk at all about the kind of man that a good man ought to be, but be such" (Aurelius).

Learning by itself is not sufficient to produce inner peace and harmony. Knowledge and skills must be used properly.
Another way of phrasing "self-mastery" might be "the proper application of knowledge."
By nature of being imperfect beings, humans have to wrestle with desires and behaviors that contradict what we know to be true.
In order to properly apply knowledge, we must develop enough control over our passions that we can act in perfect accordance with our knowledge.

For example, humans are predisposed to seek pleasure while avoiding pain. However, Aurelius makes the case that pleasure and pain have no intrinsic
value: "[P]ain and pleasure... eqully happen to good men and bad, bein things which make us neither better nor worse.
Therefore they are neither good nor evil."

I agree with Aurelius' overall sentiment. However, I would argue that both pleasure and pain actually CAN "make us better [or] worse" if we
allow them to do so. Pain can be a powerful teaching tool in certain situations. Pain can teach us to avoid harmful behaviors.
It can increase our empathy for others. Avoiding pain increases our chances of living longer.
Living longer enables us to learn more things and help more people.

Complaining is another natural human tendency. Aurelius encourages us to avoid complaining and accept those things which are out of our control.
"Take away the complaint, "I have been harmed," and the harm is taken away."
"If thou art pained by any external thing, it is not this thing that disturbs thee, but thy own judgement about it.
And it is in they power to wipe out this judgement now."

We cannot control most things that happen to us. Aurelius claims that complaining about them not only INCREASES the suffering but the complaint is actually the CAUSE
of the suffering! However, there are some things we can control, and we must do all that is in our power to make things right.
"If thou are pained because thou art not doing some particular thing which seems to thee to be right, why dost thou not rather act than complain?"

"Let there be freedom from perturbations with respect to the things which come from the external cause; and let there be
justice in the things done by virtue of the internal cause."
Does "Freedom from perturbations" sound like "inner peace" to you? I think so.

Gandhi is another individual who discussed the principle of self-mastery extensively. His concept of "self-purification" is quite similar to what
we have discussed so far, but with a subtle difference I will discuss in a moment.
"God [Truth] can never be realized by one who is not pure of heart.... But the path of self-purification is hard and steep.
To attain to perfect purity one has to become absolutely passion-free in thought, speech, and action."
Gandhi's philosophy has many things in common with Aurelius' stoicism. He emphasizes the importance of denying ourselves our impure desires.
However, there is an important distinction. Gandhi believes that passion is inherently IMMORAL (bad),
while Aurelius would argue that passion is AMORAL (neither good or bad)
I side with Aurelius on this one. I believe that having desires is perfectly fine so long as they are controlled properly.
"Bridle all your passions" quote from the book of mormon goes here.

Personal example: I exercise but refuse to do competitive sports.
I am very pain-averse and naturally do NOT want to physically exert myself. But I do it anyway.
I don't particularly care about looking good or being strong,
I just like the feeling of using my mind to push my body farther than my body wants to go. But I avoid competition because
that doesn't serve any purpose.

HELP OTHERS
change to "help others" instead of "as many people as possible" to encourage qualitative not quantitative maximum.

Keeping people alive = more chances for learning and self-mastery
Increasing people's hope = more desire for learning and self-mastery

If it is in one's power to help others improve their quality of life, it is morally necessary to do so. However, this help
should be done in a spirit of nonjudgmenetal love. In fact, loving other people helps us grow personally as well.
Loving and serving others enables all people to grow individually and collectively towards living the good life.

"Judging others makes us blind, whereas love is illuminating."

"To serve our brother, to please him, to allow him his due and to let him live, is the way of self-denial, the way of the cross.
Greater love hath no man that this, that a man lay down his life for his friends" (Bonhoeffer).

IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOT OVERDO IT
Don't stress about helping people who are outside of your control. Sure, care about them. Don't be a monster. But don't beat yourelf up
for having limited means. (personal experience from that one essay).
"We are asked today to feel compassionately for everyone in the world; to digest intellectually all the information spread
out in public print; and to implement in action every ethical impulse aroused by our hearts and minds. The inter-relatednss of the world
link us constantly with more people than the our hearts can hold. Or rather—for I believe the hart is infinite—modern communication
loads us with more problems than the human frame can carry" (Lindbergh).

What if they don't want it?
People usually don't. Callback to cave allegory. But it's necessary that we try, without forcing, to help others live the good life.

Of course, we allow other people the dignity of free will
and respect each other when others think differently.
"We ought... delicately and profoundly to respect one another's mental freedom: then only shall we bring about the intellectual republic."
Of course, there is always the possibility that my entire philosophy of life is wrong. At some point in my quest for learning I may discover
truths that invalidate all of the claims I have made up to this point. But I will never learn these things unless I am open to ideas contrary
to my own.


Conclusion:
Restate the three thingies
Sum it all up with some scriptures and logic
Work and Glory of God = Bringing to pass Immortaility and Eternal Life of man (Moses 1:39)
Glory of God = Intelligence (D&C 93)
Intelligence = Knowledge of Truth + Agency
Learning = gaining knowledge
Developing self-mastery = developing agency

Thus, we glorify God and achieve eternal life when we are 1) learning, 2) developing self-mastery, and 3) helping others learn and develop self mastery